---
title: "My Next Story"
date: 2020-11-28T23:05:49-08:00
draft: true
---

There was a story on hackernews recently about the question what it was like to work for NeXT Computer https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25197890. The company founded by Steve Jobs after his departure from Apple.

The experiences shared in this hackernews thread brought back some memories from my early days of computing and working as a programmer. No, I didn't work for NeXT nor was I close with my programming abilities to any of the genuises that invented NeXT and all the software on that system. I wasn't close to the people who gave me an opportunity to work for their little software company and how I was able to learn programming on this great system.

Somebody mentioned another website http://www.kevra.org/TheBestOfNext/ that has alot information about NeXT Computer, the software, the manufacturing process, NextStep, and so many more valuable information back from that time. It felt like time travel, when I started to stroll around on this site. It brought me back to the summer of 1991 when I had a first contact with a NeXT machine. That moment was something I will always remember for the rest of my life. It was a life changing event for me and shaped my professional career up to this day. The admiration for well crafted products and the love for little details. Let me share this story with. I might glorify certain aspects of my endevour, but that's how I remember it.

# My first job as Programmer

I finished my military service after 12 Months and I was happy to find this Job in the small consulting company in Hamburg (Beo Soft). The CEO (Ole Olsen) hired me to train graphic designer to use Quark Express. Back in the day, this was some of the hottest and probably one of the most popular DTP (Desktop Publishing Programs) of it's time. It was exclusive to the Macintosh and it was amazing. Did I say Macintosh? Oh Boy, that was the first time in my life that I had access to an Apple Computer other than the Apple 2e that I used in school. That was exciting and made me feel somehow above everything else.
I learnt the software and taught a lot of traditional graphic designer how to use it to produce their weekly print magazine (Frau im Spiegel). I helped other teams to publish more magazines during this time. I spent some time in Munich to help the team start Focus magazine. I learned a lot about the publishing business, the digital transformation, the challenges that the traditional graphic designers were facing and the power of great software. After making some friends and enemies (don't underestimate the effect of introducing software that makes people believe that they will lose their job), I moved away from teaching and supporting the graphic design teams at the magazines. The CEO of Beo Soft founded a new Company Digital Collections with some friends (Dennis Zierahn & Thies Arntzen). I moved to that new Company as another employee. I was considered an intern because of the lack of programming experience and knowledge. Not that I was unable to write software, but this was a company and they were about to built a product to earn money. I learned to program a couple of years ago. I taught myself C and Assembly. That's what I used for C64 and Atari 520 ST for. Toying around and write little things to help my parents or just for fun. But never in a professional setting like this. I was scared to fail and equally excited about the opportunity.
The moment I was introduced to my work computer I knew what I neede, no what I wanted! I sat in front of NeXTStation. This beautiful black case. Sleek, slim, interesting ripple design around the case. The ultrasharp greyscale screen, the black keyboard and mouse and the little NeXT logo on those peripherals. OMG, that was such a beautiful machine. Before I even started to use the machine, I was thinking about how many months I had to work before I could buy a NeXTStation for myself. A dream was born! The excitement was unprecedented

